---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "To Type or Not to Type? Well... I have a WOD to finish..."
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2025-01-25
published: true
labels:
  - Athletic Software Engineering
  - Typescript
  - WODs
---

Surprisingly, I find myself enjoying TypeScript. The syntax particularly appeals to me, especially the use of colons to define types, which I find logical based on my background in English writing. I also appreciate how straightforward it is to define objects, and the concept of objects acting as types is a feature that I personally enjoy.
As someone who has experience with other programming languages, TypeScript feels most similar to Java—which makes sense considering that TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript. While Java was the first programming language I learned, I'm most comfortable with Python. However, Python's lack of semicolons has become so ingrained in my habits that adjusting to TypeScript has taken a bit more time. I often catch myself missing one or two semicolons at the end of my lines, though I've mostly adapted. Overall, TypeScript doesn't feel like learning a completely new language since the core principles of Java and Python are present. It's almost like being fluent in Spanish and then learning another Romance language—the fundamental concepts remain the same, but the syntax is different.
From a software engineering perspective, I believe TypeScript is an extremely strong language, though most of my knowledge comes from third-party sources. The type system brings a level of organization that I find very pleasant, particularly the ability to assign types to functions, variables, and other elements. Additionally, TypeScript serves as a form of documentation for code, which is an aspect I greatly value while programming. 
Regarding athletic software engineering, I think this approach is beneficial, especially for those unfamiliar with fast-paced environments. It promotes consistent practice and prevents extended breaks between learning, which keeps up momentum and skill development. The practice WODs provide hands-on learning within a collaborative setting, which is essential for both knowledge absorption and career prep. The at-home WODs are similarly helpful for preparing for class activities.
However, on a personal level, the timed aspect creates anxiety that I have to actively manage as being nervous affects my performance and ability to thoroughly check my work. I find myself hyperfocusing on the remaining minutes and missing errors I would normally catch easily. This is definitely an area where I need to grow and develop better coping strategies.
This style of learning is also extremely stressful in a classroom environment. I treat each WOD as a mini-exam, except with pass/fail stakes, which leads to intense pressure. I will continue to adapt and give my best effort, but it will be an ongoing learning process. On the other hand, there are enjoyable aspects to this approach. The adrenaline rush can be exhilarating, and I'm confident that any successful completion will be deeply satisfying. Lastly, I greatly appreciate having practical exercises to work on, as I personally struggle to stay engaged during traditional class lectures. Overall, I look forward to deepening my understanding of TypeScript while simultaneously adapting to this new style of learning.
